[Music]
to get a lot of traffic you also need
links so no matter how many pieces of
content you create if you don't have
that many links it's going to be hard
for you to also rank well one way to
generate the links is actually by
releasing a free tool
welcome Neil you're a little bit of a
celebrity over in our world my team is
very excited that I'm chatting with you
today
I don't know if I'm a celebrity or even
a little celebrity but uh I do
appreciate you guys having me yeah
thanks for being here
so tell us a little bit I shared your
bio before in the intro but just tell us
in your words like your story who are
you
yeah I'm a Serial entrepreneur most
people think uh of me as a marketer but
I'm I'm really more so entrepreneur
first marketer second uh create a few
different companies my latest one is
called NP digital we're Ad Agency I
think we're in eight countries or nine
countries by the year we'll probably be
in 20 countries
um we're having a lot of fun doing it
blog about marketing you know create
social content about marketing father
husband you know it's live a pretty
normal plain life
normal playing life just lots of
businesses
not too many businesses anymore more so
a lot of head count to deal with uh
although we have great managers so I
don't have to deal with too many of them
and I don't mean deal in a negative way
it's just when you have a lot of people
it's a lot of work
um and yeah you know when I'm not
working I just spend my time with my
family
cool
so I'm glad you mentioned blogging in
there too SEO is a big focus of ours to
I know same for you tell me in your
experience like why SEO
if the reason I love seos it allows the
little guy the little man little woman
whatever you want to call it I want to
mean little I'm not talking about size
wise uh I'm talking about Dollar Wise
you know people who don't have tons of
money it allows them to compete with the
big corporations
without the same firing power just think
it was like David versus Goliath these
big corporations a lot of them don't
have you know thousands of dollars of AD
spend they have millions and in some
cases billions right billions is more
rare but a lot of them have millions
some even hundreds of millions of
dollars and how do you compete with them
SEO can continually get you traffic it's
your 24 hour salesman even when you're
sleeping and when you get the results a
lot of it takes is from time and effort
versus money spent and yes it takes
longer to achieve the results but once
you get them it can really change your
business overnight
yeah oh I love that totally agree and
our audience is a lot of coaches and
Consultants so why should they care
about this and not just like SEO isn't
just for bloggers like it's a
traditional blogger
yeah so if you're a coach or consultant
it's a great way to generate income
um I'm not really a coach myself but
let's say I'm a consultant all right
it's it's very similar you're pretty
much helping someone a semantics on what
do you want to call a coach sure and if
you look at our Ad Agency NP digital we
were the 22 fastest growing company on
Inc 500 list when we first uh hit the
list or no 21st fastest growing I don't
think 22. so 21st fastest growing when
we first hit the ink list
um and then we got on there again after
and a lot of the results came from SEO
um and you're talking about a nine plus
figure Revenue company a lot of the
revenue came from SEO
yeah
that's awesome I mean that has been my
experience too and SEO has allowed me to
quit social media all together and so I
don't have I mean we have like an old
profile up still that basically just
says hey this is our welcome map but we
do not hang out here come hang out with
us over on the blog and the podcast and
you know where where we are so for you
when it comes to attracting like
customers or visitors to your website do
you think SEO can be just as powerful if
not more as social media
I think it's more power than social
media the problem with social media is
the algorithms change all the time it
can really hurt you the reach is
continually dying unless you spend more
and more money
um you know with SEO you create amazing
content you get that Evergreen traffic
with social media you create content you
get that hit for first 24 or 48 Hours
unless you produce another hey you're
not going to see much love from social
media unless you spend that money on
Advertising exactly the shelf life is
just that's what's keeping you on that
hamster wheel every day new new new new
and it's like oh I've got posts blog
posts from years ago that are still
bringing in you know traffic to the site
and then getting people on my email list
they're already there you know too I
feel like having people on a social
media platform you have to like
interrupt what they're doing get them
off the platform whereas SEO is like
they're already looking for you like
they typed it in they're looking for you
and then they're ready to like take the
next step there because they found you
that's right and and you said it best in
which you could have content that's
years old like just keeps producing for
you and you can collect emails from it
pop them in webinars
um send email sequences to try to get
them to become a lead or a customer
right it's endless uh and that traffic
continually brings new eyeballs each and
every single month yeah it's the best I
love it such a longer shelf life such a
more sustainable way to you know attract
clients and grow your audience and your
business so we're on the same page what
are some Trends in SEO that you think
business owners should be aware of in
2023 now
yeah so for some Trends in SEO for 2023
the first one is a lot of business
owners focus on content when it comes to
SEO traffic because the more words you
have the better off you're gonna be and
assuming they're high quality you know
pieces of content sure but the problem
with content is there's so much content
on every single topic it actually is
harder to get rankings in traffic now
than it was five ten years ago or even
two years ago you search for any term
like auto insurance there'll be a
billion plus results but people are
clicking on the first 10 right page one
of Google maybe page two so you're
looking at 20 out of billion plus
results
now to get a lot of traffic you also
need links so no matter how many pieces
of content you create if you don't have
that many links it's going to be hard
for you to also rank well one way to
generate the links is actually by
releasing a free tool
so there's free tools that you can pop
on your website for any sector we have
SEO tools and marketing tools and a b
testing tools on our website and
calculators
you can go to sites like
codecanyon.net and find tools in any
space you know like
um accountability calendar I don't know
I'm making this up you can go figure out
what it is you can spend 10 to 50 bucks
they'll give you a white label version
that you can put on your website
claim it as your own because you're
paying for it and they allow this and
you'll notice that over time it'll
produce a lot of natural links which
will help your rankings drastically
that's such an interesting idea so what
how does it help your links by having
this tool
people tend to link to tools more than
they link to content so if you have
great tools on your website you'll
naturally get links these links help
your overall site rank higher makes your
tools rank higher makes your home page
rank higher makes your content Pages
rank higher because Google will look at
the overall authority of your website
yeah okay so interesting what about AI I
know that's like the big hot topic now
so there's
I'll I'll talk about AI first and the
issue people are going to run to and
then I'll talk about the problem with
using AI
I do think AI is here to stay and I
think it's great but first off
you know as I mentioned with the auto
insurance example if there's a billion
plus results and then you you know um if
there's a billion plus results
and people are clicking on page one or
two
you know
um you won't end up having to
just creating a ton of content is not
going to get you more content and let me
ask you to type in a great example of
this so I live in Las Vegas uh what is
the population of Las Vegas all right
that is a one two three four five six
seven seven word term okay
there is according to google right now
70 Million results 70 million 500 to be
exactly all right
no one's clicking Beyond page one or
page two so you're talking about your
fraction of a percent you know a
fraction of a fraction of one percent is
getting the traffic so if you use AI to
just crank out a lot of content and the
content's not high quality you're not
going to do well
so the first thing is if you want to use
AI for Content it needs to be amazing
content that has unique experiences your
expertise your Authority your trust
Google calls it double eat
and that AI is not going to produce but
AI is doing this crawling the web see
what other people wrote and they're
going to spin up a new version based on
existing data so unless if you use AI to
write your content that's fine make sure
you go and modify it heavily if it takes
you two hours to write a piece of
content maybe it'll take you an hour
because AI will do like half the work
for you and when you end up doing this
what you'll find is your content will be
much better higher quality even if you
use Ai and it'll start ranking better
the second thing to know is AI is only
as good as the sources so Google's been
around for ages let's call it 20 plus
years and in Google's lifespan they
still haven't been able to solve
misinformation if you type a search for
a lot of terms out there you're going to
get some false information okay I typed
in right what is the population of uh
Las Vegas now one of the main result
says
790. all right
um if I go to the next result it says
659 348. the next result after that is
641 903
the next result after that is 651 297.
the point that I'm getting is the first
four results all say different numbers
what is the correct answer there is
answer right which one's the closest and
maybe none of them are exact I don't
know but the point I'm getting at is if
the input is off and this was an easy
example and that's one of the reasons I
also typed it in but if the input is off
the output is also going to be off so
with AI a lot of the sources are feeding
in bad information which means the
content that AI creates naturally is
going to be off so you really need a
human to double check it and modify it
okay that's so interesting yeah I mean I
assumed and we've been playing around
with like chat GPT and stuff and seeing
what we can do there and I mean it's
honestly just fun to play around with
and see what it can come up with
um but I was expecting you'd have to
edit it heavily because it would sound
like a robot but it really doesn't it
sounds like a human wrote it which is
amazing I was thinking you know like I
know how it works with Siri and I
wouldn't expect her to be able to write
anything for me so
um that has been really interesting I've
heard too that like AI can actually like
basically do the keyword research for
you and or making sure that your posts
are optimized for keywords how is do you
know much about that or how is that
possible
yeah it can so there's a lot of AI
That's integrated with SEO tools and you
can feed it keywords and it'll tell you
all the other related keywords and
what's based on traffic we do some of
that as well on RN but again even with
all of that it's just get it's taking
data from different sources and giving
you output without the human modifying
it and making it amazing it's just going
to be another me too piece of
regurgitated content yeah okay
so yeah so it can save you time but it's
not going to replace a hundred percent
of your time nowhere nowhere near there
right yeah for some pieces of content
sure you can end up uh having to write
an article on like the colors in a
rainbow that's not that hard uh you
don't really need a human to modify that
but there's already a lot of articles
that talk about the colors in the
rainbow if you want to write anything
that's
worthy of being read that isn't already
regurgitated it's going to be hard for
AAA to do that not just this year or
next year the year after I would say for
the next five plus years yeah okay
interesting
so you mentioned you do some of this and
you have tools we are big fans of uber
suggest over here so tell us a bit about
the conception of ubersuggest and
um actually I'll stop there and we'll
just kind of get the story behind it
first remember how I earlier mentioned
free tool get a lot of backlinks it ends
up increasing rankings that was one of
the reasons we bought ubersus we bought
it for back in the day for like 120
Grand oh my gosh yeah we spent Millions
to adapt the tool and modify it and make
it better uh and then we did the same
thing with another tool last year it was
called uh answer the public we bought
that I think for like an 8.6 million or
something like that wow
um but we're running that Playbook
because we know it works really well
free tools generate quite a bit of links
uh and can generate much higher SEO
traffic and leads in the long run
[Music]
how people could use
who are listening
sure so you can put in any keyword
within your space uh
um let's say you're helping people like
uh become a wellness coach right you can
type in Wellness related keywords and
coaching related keywords that'll tell
you all the other ones that are popular
all the other ones that are similar that
you haven't thought about and I'll tell
you which ones aren't competitive which
ones get searched a lot which ones are
expensive if you want to advertise on
and it'll end up slicing a dice in a day
and tell you based on your domain here's
the ones that you should consider going
after writing content around
um you can even putting competitor URLs
it tells you all the people who links to
them it'll even tell you all the pages
that are popular on the website getting
traffic from social media and Google and
what pages uh or what piece of content
that you don't have that they have that
if you consider writing it would add
more traffic to your website we call
that content gaps in which is in essence
is telling you here's all the stuff your
competition is writing on that you
haven't written on you know maybe you
should consider it and it'll even tell
you all the things that are wrong with
your page from your code to your load
speed and it'll tell you how to fix it
and it'll prioritize it in order yeah we
use it love it I've done all those
things with it and um it's amazing so
when it comes to keyword research what
rules of thumb do you recommend people
follow if they're let's just say with
your wellness coach example like what's
the search volume you would recommend
staying within you ideally want to look
for keywords over a thousand searches a
month because remember even if you're
rank number one on Google and a keyword
has a thousand searches doesn't mean
you're going to get a thousand clicks
onto your website out of all the people
that search only a portion of them will
click through to a website so you may
get ten percent five percent two percent
three percent now that may not be that
motivating but keep in mind when you
write content around those keywords
naturally without even trying to
integrate 20 30 40 other keywords some
of them are longer tail variations which
you know instead of wellness coach it
may be three forward variations of that
but it'll add up and that's how you get
traffic in the law a great example of
this is quora It's a question and
answers website and they don't go after
a lot of terms that are super popular
but they go after a lot of terms that
aren't popular but enough people search
for them every month and when you go
after millions of these terms you know
it adds a lot of traffic and I think
quora is one of the top 100 websites in
the world according to similar web I
could be off but the last time I checked
I believe was in the top hundred wow
that's so interesting and so what about
competition
or like search difficulty you know yeah
it tells you how difficult a keyword is
to rank for
um and it'll tell you based on your
domain what's the probability if you're
actually even able to rank for it it'll
tell you how much traffic your
competition gets what they're doing that
you're not doing but yeah I can break
down all those things with the keyword
yeah and so if you're doing keyword
research and you find a keyword and it's
like okay this has 5 000 searches per
month but the search difficulty is 80.
would you recommend like a small
business owner go after a keyword like
that
well an Uber suggests there's like a
feature that says like uh what can I
rank for so you put in your domain name
and it'll be like okay you know not
you're not just a small business but
here's how many links you have here's
your overall Authority and it'll tell
you all right out of all these you know
million keywords or a thousand keywords
or a hundred thousand keywords because
our database has billions of keywords at
this point
um it'll tell you here are the ones that
you're actually likely to rank for
within your space so now you know what
to focus on first okay and it changes it
per website because some small
businesses have more Authority on their
website versus others right so you just
you want to do what's based on your
website versus what's you know what a
small business should do so that way
it's adapted more to you and that way
you can get better results quicker got
it okay okay cool
um let's see what are some of the
biggest SEO mistakes you see people
making today
they're not consistent with their
content creation
uh if you create content once a month
that's not enough you need to do weekly
just like you create social content on a
daily or weekly basis the second thing
is you don't update your content enough
even if you have old posts that are
still getting you traffic if you keep
them fresh and up to date they're going
to rank way higher it's a great reason
why Wikipedia continually ranks for
everything whenever you search on Google
because the contents continually up to
date because people go in and modify it
and keep it up to date the other mistake
that people are making with their SEO is
you know they try to create tons of
pages of content it's not about creating
the most pages of content it's about
having amazing quality content about.com
was a website I believe owned by New
York Times at one point I don't know if
they still own it and then they spun it
out and change it from about.com to like
five or six different domain names and
they made them specialized and they
deleted a lot of the content so they
actually had less content more specialty
websites and they got more traffic than
when it was all onabout.com it just
shows that when you have great content
and you remove the junk and you
specialize within your vertical you're
going to do much better in traffic as
well yeah so another argument for
basically niching down
correct but you just want to make sure
your Niche is also big enough because
you don't want to be in a niche where
like wow the biggest player in my space
is making
500 Grand a year now 500 Grand a year is
a lot of income but if someone's making
500 Grand a year and they're the biggest
player well if you're a fraction of what
they are then maybe you get to 50 000 a
year is that enough for you to be happy
with so you also need to create a big
enough Tam right so or you need to be
going after a big enough Tam or so sure
sure okay gotcha so weekly content is
required updating old content that's
what we've actually just spent the last
quarter is updating a bunch of our old
content so glad we're on the right track
there
um what about combining SEO with paid
search marketing
works great so I don't tell people they
should do paid or SEO I tell them you
should do paid SEO email social
conversion optimization you should try
to leverage all the channels marketing
is an omni Channel approach
the key is just making each of the
channels profitable and successful right
it's not one or the other it's be
everywhere you can and try to do it in a
profitable way
gotcha
and um let's see I think we're up to our
last question here so how long do you
find it takes most new websites to start
ranking if they follow like best SEO
practices
within six months you'll start seeing
much more traffic from SEO within a few
years you'll see a ton of traffic like
you're not going to go from zero to a
million visitors in six months it's
unrealistic sometimes you don't even go
from zero to a hundred thousand in six
months it depends on the vertical you'll
be able to get like ten thousand
visitors a month but if you want a lot
of traffic and again it depends per
vertical because some verticals don't
have the search volume a great example
of this is mesothelioma right which is a
lot of legal cases uh people dying from
like working on those Old Navy ships or
like uh some of those old homes have it
you know each case is worth millions of
dollars in theory uh there's not a lot
of traffic but there's a ton of money to
be made so traffic volume isn't
everything but within your vertical you
should start seeing decent results
within six months within years you
really are getting your strides going
yeah yeah that's amazing
it made me think
um when you were saying that and now I'm
totally losing my train of thought
um
you said
omnichannel approach
six months
dang I hate it when that happens I know
the feeling
oh I remember okay
um
do you find that it is like SEO
practices are applicable to something
like a podcast or it's really more in
written form
no not just for informed there's YouTube
SEO there's podcast SEO there's SEO even
on Airbnb believe it or not if you want
to like uh coach people on how they can
generate income just renting out their
place right there's a business put up
people make a lot of money on Airbnb and
my father-in-law crushes it on his
Catalina Island Airbnb
um but the point I'm getting at is like
there's SEO everywhere and you need to
adapt like for podcasting Google also
index podcasts so keywords within the
podcast the title within the description
get the ratings and reviews for podcasts
for your YouTube videos videos that do
really well in the first 24 hours tend
to do really well for the life of the
video send out email blast in the first
24 hours push notifications encourage
comments all these things really matter
yeah yeah okay that's great and when you
say for podcast SEO specifically
you know I know Google owns YouTube and
it's kind of like that feels like a
separate thing like it's almost like
Googling
using actual Google when you're on
YouTube but for podcasts since there's
so many different podcast players um and
applications that people use how does
that like are you does you know Apple
podcasts have a different algorithm than
Spotify or are you still talking about
basically Google SEO
no they all have different algorithms
and you gotta adapt to each of them and
don't just focus on Google you know
there's Bing there's Google there's
Airbnb for booking there's Expedia for
hotels uh there's Tick Tock a lot of
young people are now using Tick Tock he
has a Google VP once had for uh finding
a restaurant or even Instagram these are
all places where people are searching
yeah you gotta keep all of them in mind
yeah that's so interesting okay cool
Neil what should I have asked you about
SEO that I did not get to
uh the one thing that I would note that
a lot of small businesses don't think
about the biggest leverage point in SEO
right now is global expansion us English
is super competitive but language is
like Portuguese for Brazil or Portuguese
for Portugal or French for uh what is
called France or you know Hindi for
India and the list of regions go on and
on it's not as competitive
um the GDP may not be as high as the
United States but there's still a lot of
money to be made it's not as competitive
and it's an easy way for a small
business to grow super fast
interesting
okay cool
thanks so much so we have a couple
minutes left here and we always end
these episodes with a quick lightning
round of questions so you ready for it
let's do this okay what is your favorite
way to make time for self-care while
running all of your businesses
uh can you repeat the question again
sorry about that yeah like what do you
do for fun rest play when you're not
working
hang out with my kids I play games with
them
um I don't know what the latest game
that my kid is playing is zingo or
something like that it helps them learn
how to read
yeah how many kids do you have two a
three-year-old and a one-year-old okay
we're similar I've got a two-year-old
and a four-year-old ah cool so you're in
it
it's a lot of work what I love a lot of
work do anything yeah for sure
um what's one tool or strategy you like
to use to help with time management
so I just use my Google Calendar and
everything is in there uh there was apps
I was using in the past like rescue time
that tells you where you're wasting time
yeah I also look at my iPhone on a
weekly basis it'll tell me where I'm
spending some of my time and I look at
where there's wastage and I try to
remove some of it yeah yeah that can be
a very convicting exercise to do when
you see those screen time reports that's
what made me quit social media yeah yeah
um okay what's one of the most powerful
business books you've ever read
I love principles by Ray dalio if anyone
hasn't checked it out you should uh I
think he has digital versions for free
don't quote me on that but he has a lot
of like iPhone apps and stuff he's Rich
so I don't think he really cares for the
money he's just trying to help people
but check out some of his materials yeah
cool okay
um do you have a favorite quote or an
affirmation or for thing when things get
tough and you just feel like
closing the door and hiding away from
everyone there is and my uncle taught
this to me a long long time ago and I
don't know where he got it from so
you know he would always tell me when
things are getting really tough just
keep in mind there's other people out
there who have it much worse than you
right like for example there's people
without food and water like literally
there's people who are starving in this
world and when things are going really
well for you keep in mind there's other
people out there who have it much better
than you
and it puts it in perspective because it
really helps you stay level like you
don't want to be too emotional in
business in which you get too excited
when things are great or get too sad
when things are not going the way you
want you want to stay really level
remove a lot of the emotions so you can
look at things from a logical
perspective and figure out what you need
to do to get to the next level
yeah and it's interesting because it's
like there's always no matter where
you're at there's always going to be
somebody that's better off and worse off
than you that's right yeah unless like
you're like an Elon Musk but like even
him right sometimes even though he has a
lot of money
you go through a lot of hate and people
hate on him for like some crazy stuff
maybe some of it I don't know he
deserves or not I don't really follow
all the stuff but he's doing amazing
things for the world at least at my
point of view maybe other people will
disagree with me he's not perfect but
like people are gonna hate on him
they're gonna hate on Bill Gates they're
gonna hate on me they're gonna hit on
you they're gonna hate on our children
and I know this sounds bad people go
through life with hate and positivity
but you got to learn to just control
your emotions yeah for sure for sure
so podcast is called success with soul
what does success with soul mean to you
success with soul to me means succeeding
in an ethical and a fun way like if
you're not happy and you truly can't be
content with the way you're doing things
you know and you can't look yourself in
the mirror and be proud of what you're
doing then something's wrong with
your daily life yeah and you should work
on fixing it
for sure
awesome thanks so much for your time
Neil really appreciate it
no problem thanks for having me yeah